
# Importing Custom Areas

Instead of defining custom areas by drawing them using the built-in tools, custom areas can be imported into the application with a shapefile.

An example shapefile can be found [here](https://github.com/ikewai/HIGRE-workshop/raw/main/assets/area_data.zip).

To import this into the application, click the "Import" button under the section "Load/Save Changes" in the right panel.

**NOTE** Importing data is only available from the land-cover visualization and will be greyed out while in the groundwater-recharge visualization.

This will bring up a dialog box asking what you want to import. Select "Import Shapefile". A set of options for how to handle the shapefile will be displayed. We will be using the default option (Custom Areas).

Shapefiles can also be uploaded as a toggleable overlay. Toggleable overlays are non-interactive and do not have individual metrics computed for them (e.g. the caprock overlay). Additionally, shapefiles can be used to modify land cover directly by adding a property to the shape metadata called lcCode with the desired land-cover code as its value. The name of this property can be changed under "Advanced Options".

Click "Select Files" and choose the shapefile to import. Shapefiles are composed of several files that should be stored in a zipped folder for upload.

Once the files are uploaded imported to the map they can be modified similarly to the areas drawn on the map using the built-in tools.

## Modifying and Exporting Areas

It is also possible to use this tool to modify the areas provided by the shapefile. Under the drawing tools is an edit button. This button can be used to modify the shapes on the map.

Additionally, the "Name Custom Areas" button in the right panel can be used to assign names to specific areas. These names will be used in reports generated by the application to identify the areas and will be attached to exported shapefiles under the shape's metadata using the property "name".

Once the shapes are modified, they can be exported from the application using the "Export" button in the right panel. Select "Custom Areas (as Shapefile)" and click "Export" in the popup dialog box. This will download a shapefile containing the modified shapes.

---

[Previous: Built-in Tools](./2_native_tools.md)

[Next: Import Land-Cover Scenarios](./4_import_lc.md)